---
title: SL Phase I - Hello Kernel!
date: 2024-04-06 21:00:00 -0300
categories: [USP, SL]
tags: [usp, sl]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---
This blog page was created with the purpose of logging my experience with the MAC0470 Free Software (SL) course.
Throughout the semester, I will be making posts for each phase of the course explaining the tasks and telling about my challenges. 

# The Course

The aforementioned SL course is adopting a new structure this semester. It's been split into two phases:
1. Contributing to the Linux Kernel and the Kernel workflow lib
2. Contributing to an open source project of the student's choice

# Phase I

Phase I started with theoretical lectures on free/open source software, licenses and the Linux kernel, and then moved to practical workshops following the [Flusp tutorials](https://flusp.ime.usp.br/kernel/), that serve as an introduction to modifiying and installing the Linux Kernel.
In this simplified tutorials, we only made changes to the IIO subsystem of the Linux Kernel.

# How it's going

I couldn't get `libvirt` to run in my machine, so I had to follow the [old tutorials](https://flusp.ime.usp.br/kernel/use-qemu-to-play-with-linux/) from [Siqueira](https://siqueira.tech/), which have a much less automated workflow to making and installing the kernel in a local VM. 

The proccess (best described in the linked tutorials), consisted of 
- Setting up a local linux VM
- Connecting to it by SSH
- Copying the VM .config file to the Host machine
- Compiling the kernel in the Host with the desired changes
- Copying the compiled kernel from the VM to the Host machine
- Installing the new Kernel in the VM, and generating a new boot with it with grub

I couldn't compile the kernel in my host machine due to incompatibility with the kernel's packages, since they weren't available anymore in my package manager. To solve this, I had to manually search and install the legacy packages that fortunately were available online. 

The first two steps of the tutorial were a success, and I could compile and install a new version of the kernel with simple changes. 

But after that, I couldn't get anymore changes to be made effective, and we couldn't figure out why. So I remade the first tutorials. Since I hadn't backed up the VM's image between each step, I had to remake it, and some things were never the same. 

Specifically, copying files from the Host to the VM sometimes yielded errors with no message other than `scp: failed to upload directory`.  

Despite all that, I've just finished the first two tutorials (again).
